From: Rod Scheetz <rds77@geology.byu.edu>
Sent: Wednesday, January 18, 2006 12:15 PM
To: Lamanna, Matthew <LamannaM@CarnegieMNH.Org>; Ray Wilhite EE-mail" <ultrasauros@hotmail.com>
Subject: cactus park diplo

Matt:

I was just staarting to compile a message to you when I received your email.

Yep, we did find the diplodocus material.  We unfortunately had not entered the id's into the database until now.  With Ray's help yesterday, we found the elements he'd identified.  The right ulna (BYU 4708) measures 48 cm long; the right radius (BYU 4726) fits nicely into the ulna and measures 47 cm long; the right humerus (BYU 4742 -- Ray's got it mis-numbered.  He might have picked up a specimen card of a partial humerus next to this one) measures 61 cm long, and as you can tell from the photo, part of the the deltapectoral crest is broken off.

We can arrange to send these off if you want.  Combined, they're little more than I can handle with my baggage on the plane.

As for the Dryosaurus material, we have nothing near as big as your specimen.

We might be able to help fill in your Camptosaurus.  Western Paleo Labs (WPL) donated a Camptosaurus to us from near Bone Cabin area. The specimen has verts  C5 thru D11 (although half of them are in bad shape), both arms and hands.  Partial femur is almost exactly the size of a complete femur we have from Willow Springs (37cm), so this is slightly smaller than what you have.  WPL estimates this animal at 1 meter tall, 3 m long.  However, WPL has a Camptosaurus they estimate to be only slightly larger at 1.25 m tall and 3.5 m long (I don't have the femur length available with me right now).  This is a specimen I'll be working with them on because it has a beautiful disarticulated skull which they'd casted and reconstructed.  My best guess is this is the animal you'd want to use if you could work out a deal with them.  I'm looking at a schematic of the elements represented in the skeleton of that critter.  Other than the skull, there are verts C7 thru D4, and D10 thru Cdl 10. The pelvis is missing a distal portion of an ischium and its missing the right leg but has a complete left.

I know the WPL Camptosaurus is heading for a Japanese exhibit in June, so if you want to work with them before that time I'll hook you guys up.  Otherwise you may have to wait till next Winter.  I know WPL is looking for a home for the critter.  My hopes is that someone would come up with some money and donate it to one of us.  My fear is that a foreign private collector will buy it and keep it for himself.

I think this would be a perfect match and I'd encourage something to happen. Let me know how interested you are.  I can bring a reconstructed cast with me.

--Rod

Rodney D. Scheetz, Ph.D.,
Curator, BYU Earth Science Museum
1683 N. Canyon Road
Provo, Utah  84602
801-422-3939

